Website: add State of Solvers report as blog post (#519)
open-energy-transition/solver-benchmark: website/src/data/posts/state_of_solvers.md

---
title: "The State of Solvers for Energy Planning"
date: "2026-03-29"

> excerpt: "The State of Solvers for Energy Planning"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "The results of the 2025 Open Energy Benchmark"
```

tags: ["report", "solvers", "benchmarks"]
---

> > **Authors:** Enrico Antonini, Siddharth Krishna, Daniele Lerede

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Authors:** (in alphabetical order) Enrico Antonini, Siddharth Krishna, Daniele Lerede
```

>

> > **Contributors:** Heba Badawy, Jacek Bendig, Kristijan Faust, Fabrizio Finozzi, Priya Goli Vamsi, Madhukar Mishra, Maximillian Parzen, and Luis Prieto

Reviewer: Perhaps we can also add the acknowledgements/thanks that we have in the report?

>
> **Funder:** Breakthrough Energy

> >

Reviewer: Unfortunately, the quote is being rendered with `"` at the start and the end of the block, which looks a bit funny. Can it be disabled? Otherwise we can just use italics instead, perhaps.

| Solution type (LP) | Basic (or basic after crossover) | Basic (simplex) or non-basic (IPM) | Basic (SoPlex) | Basic (CLP) | Basic |
| Crossover | Auto (enabled if barrier) | Auto (`run_crossover = choose`) | N/A | N/A | N/A |
| Barrier/IPM tolerance | 1e-8 | 1e-8 | N/A | N/A | N/A |
| Primal feasibility tolerance | 1e-6 | 1e-7 | 1e-6 | 1e-6 | 1e-6 |
| Dual feasibility tolerance | 1e-6 | 1e-7 | 1e-6 | 1e-6 | 1e-6 |
| Threads | All available cores | All available cores | 1 | 1 | 1 |
| MIP gap | 1e-4 | 1e-4 | 1e-4 (default = 0) | 1e-4 (default = 0) | 1e-4 (default = 0) |
| Random seed | 0 | 0 (default = not fixed) | 0 | 0 (default = time-based) | 0 (default = not fixed) |
| Notes | Uses branch-and-cut for MILPs with simplex, typically dual, for node relaxations; barrier uses crossover by default | Uses branch-and-cut for MILPs with simplex, typically dual, for node relaxations; IPM may skip crossover | MILP-focused solver; LP handled by SoPlex; limited parallelism | Limited cut generation and parallelism; relies on CLP for LP solves | Legacy solver; limited performance on large-scale MILPs |

</div>

> ***Table 3: Overview of the solver options adopted in the benchmarking process. Parameters modified from their native default values are highlighted in orange; all other listed options represent the standard default settings.***

Reviewer: Since we can't highlight in orange, perhaps we make those cells bold instead?

Author: @siddharth-krishna what about the current version? I'm using italics for the orange cells and bold of the row header
